## (Four) Other Preventive Measures

(Four) Other preventive measures

Topical application of moderate to weak potency corticosteroids (betamethasone and mometasone) has been shown in current studies to reduce the incidence of severe radiation dermatitis and may be used temporarily under a doctor's prescription. Alternatively, silicone-based gel dressings may be considered. After natural drying, they form a transparent, resilient protective layer, and small-scale studies have demonstrated their ability to reduce the occurrence of radiation dermatitis.

Aloe vera may worsen the severity of radiation dermatitis and is therefore advised against use.

Other skincare products currently lack sufficient evidence from evidence-based medicine to demonstrate preventive effects against radiation dermatitis. If use is desired, consultation with a physician is recommended.

## References

1. Chang L, Zhou X, Qiu W, Xie J, Li J, Hong M, Jiang M, Xie C, Cai Y (2015). Guidelines for the prevention and care of radiation-induced dermatitis. *Journal of Oncology Nursing*, (15), 81–98. https://doi.org/10.3966/168395442015121503006

2. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/radiation-dermatitis

3. MASCC clinical practice guidelines for the prevention and management of acute radiation dermatitis: part 1) systematic review. Behroozian T, et al. *EClinicalMedicine*. 2023 Mar 27;58:101886. doi:10.1016/j.eclinm.2023.101886. eCollection 2023 Apr.

4. Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) clinical practice guidelines for the prevention and management of acute radiation dermatitis: international Delphi consensus-based recommendations. Behroozian T, et al. *The Lancet Oncology*. 2023 Apr;24(4):e172-e185. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(23)00067-0