## Treatment Principles of Chronic Kidney Disease

## Adhering to Medication Prescriptions:

It is very important to understand and strictly follow the medication prescriptions prescribed by a nephrologist. Especially, avoid taking unverified medications or folk remedies, as this may further damage the kidneys. Generally, for chronic kidney disease, physicians will prescribe the following medications:

· Hypertension medications: When hypertension symptoms are present, the high vascular pressure can cause ongoing kidney damage. Therefore, antihypertensive drugs are needed to treat hypertension.

Glucose-lowering medications: Diabetic patients need to maintain their blood glucose levels within a normal range to prevent deterioration of kidney function.

· Phosphate binders: Calcium or aluminum supplements are commonly used as phosphate binders. When kidney function drops to 30–35%, the body's ability to excrete phosphate decreases, leading to phosphate accumulation in the body. Since phosphorus is ubiquitous in our daily diet, in addition to dietary control, phosphate binders are necessary to coat dietary phosphorus and expel it directly from the gastrointestinal tract, preventing the body from absorbing phosphate ions.

Iron supplements: Iron is a raw material for blood production. Patients with chronic kidney disease may suffer from iron deficiency due to long-term dietary imbalance and may need to take iron supplements as prescribed by their doctor.

Erythropoietin (EPO): This hormone injection helps stimulate blood cell production and is most effective in improving anemia.